## Iconify Icon web component {#iconify-icon}

New `[tag]<iconify-icon />` web component has been released.

See [NPM package description](https://www.npmjs.com/package/iconify-icon) for details.

This is a major milestone for Iconify project. It drastically improves developer experience by proving modern web component to render icons.

Example usage:

```html
<script src="https://code.iconify.design/iconify-icon/0.0.2/iconify-icon.min.js"></script>
```

```html
<iconify-icon icon="material-symbols:account-circle"></iconify-icon>
```

It is as easy to use as SVG framework, but without extra hassle of watching DOM for placeholders. It also works with any component framework.

Why is it better than existing SVG framework and icon components?

### Shadow DOM

Unlike SVG framework and older components, `[tag]<iconify-icon />` renders icon in shadow DOM. What does it mean? It means icon is separate from parent HTML document.

Advantages of using shadow DOM:

-   No conflicts with document's stylesheet.
-   Works perfectly with SSR.

Server side rendering is becoming more common, hydration process can be messy, especially when icons supposed to contain unique ids. This has been a big headache for icon components for a while. With web component, server script simply renders `[tag]<iconify-icon />`, without actual icon code and during hydration frameworks such as React do not check icon content. Which means several things: rendering actual icon on server side is no longer required, no need to generate unique ids for things like masks, web component can load icon data from API without caring about what framework thinks of it because as far as frameworks are concerned, they only render one simple tag.

### Render modes

SVG 2 animations have not been popular and for a good reason: currently in browsers animations do not start until entire document is loaded. Small things like slow loading ad can prevent animation from working.

How to solve it? It can be solved by rendering icon as background image or as mask image. Background and mask images are not affected by document's timers.

`[tag]<iconify-icon />` supports several render modes to solve this issue. Icon can be rendered as `[tag]<svg />` or as `[tag]<span />` with inline style (article about it will be added soon to documentation).

`[tag]<span />` is used to render icons with SVG 2 animations. In addition to solving animation delay issue, SVG 2 animations perform much better when used as background or mask.

However, without animations icons perform better as `[tag]<svg />`, so both modes are supported and can be toggled using mode attribute.

Mode can be toggled by using `[attr]mode` attribute.
