## New major versions of icon components, utils, tools {#update-2022}

After several months of hard work, new major versions of many packages have been released:

-   [Iconify Icon web component](/docs/iconify-icon/index.md) version `[num]1.0.0`.
-   [SVG framework](/docs/icon-components/svg-framework/index.md) version `[num]3.0.0`.
-   New major versions of all [icon components](/docs/icon-components/index.md).
-   [Iconify Utils](/docs/libraries/utils/index.md) version `[num]2.0.0`.
-   [Iconify Types](/docs/types/index.md) version `[num]2.0.0`.

Additionally, a new minor version of [Iconify Tools](/docs/libraries/tools/index.md) has been published, which uses updated utils and types packages.

What's new:

-   In types, new properties for the icon set were added: `[prop]lastModified` that shows last modification time, `[prop]tags` for icon set information that can be used to filter icon sets by tags instead of categories.
-   [Web component](/docs/iconify-icon/index.md) is finally stable. It is intended to replace old [SVG framework and framework's specific components](/docs/icon-components/index.md). Unlike older icon components, web component works extremely well with server side rendering.
-   Alignment properties have been removed from all icon components. Alignment seemed like a good idea a while ago, but in reality it is not used and just bloat package for no reason. If you do use alignment, web component supports `[prop]preserveAspectRatio` property that is passed to `[tag]svg`.
-   [Render modes for icon components](/docs/iconify-icon/modes.md), though not all components support it.
-   Many internal changes everywhere, designed to improve performance and reduce bundle size.
