```yaml
title: Major icon sets restructuring
link: icon-sets-2022-update
```

[Iconify icon sets repository](https://github.com/iconify/icon-sets) received biggest update.

Icon sets are updated automatically every few days by an automated script. Until now, the script was using old code that didn't do proper validation. With the release of [Iconify Tools 2](https://docs.iconify.design/tools/tools2/), it is now possible to properly analyse and validate icons.

Update script has been rewritten, all icon sets have been re-checked, which resulted in major update of icon sets repository. Every single icon set file was affected.

Additionally, there are few other changes:

### Unmaintained icon sets

Icon sets that are no longer maintained by their authors have been moved to new `[str]Archive / Unmaintained` category.

### Removed icon sets

15 icon sets were removed.

When Iconify project development started several years ago, there were very few good icon sets. Many icon sets were designed as fonts. Icons in those icon sets were usually very badly designed, alignment was way off and today they are no longer maintained.

Removed icon sets will not appear on Iconify website and will not show up in search results.

However, icon data is still available on both NPM and API, so anyone using those icons can continue using them without interruption. Icon sets and icons are never removed from Iconify, they are just marked as hidden but continue to be usable.

### New icon sets

Several new icon sets were added.

Newly added icon sets include FontAwesome version 6, several icon sets with flags.

Because FontAwesome version 6 redesigned most of the icons, it was added separately from FontAwesome version 5, so both versions are available.
