## New Iconify API software with icon search engine

Iconify API has been rewritten using modern development process and is now running on [Iconify public API servers](/docs/api/index.md#public-api).

This is a huge release that has been in development for a long time.

### API features

New version is fully open source, written in TypeScript. It can:

-   Serve icon data to icon components and dynamically generate SVG.
-   Provide list of icon sets and list of icons.
-   Search icons.
-   Import icon sets from various sources and automatically keep them up to date without restarting server (no documentation yet, but code is there).

It is a Node.js HTTP server, does not require installing any additional software. All you need to do is install NPM dependencies, build it, optionally configure it and start server.

### API documentation

See [Iconify API software documentation](/docs/api/hosting-js/index.md).

New documentation includes [documentation for API queries](/docs/api/queries.md), including search engine documentation. Developers can use it to create various projects that allow users search and select icons, for example, icon pickers for website builders or theme customiers.

Host your own Iconify API with open source icon sets or your own icons! Build applications for searching, browsing and selecting icons, integrate them in various tools! Everything you need is finally available.

If you have any questions, please [join discord server](/support/index.md) or ask them at [API source repository](https://github.com/iconify/api).
