## Next major version of icon components

Big update for icon components!

New web component has been published as beta version. New major versions of old icon components have been published, using `[npm]@next` tag.

What's new?

-   [Web component](/docs/iconify-icon/).
-   New icon rendering modes.
-   Many internal changes, resulting in faster components and smaller bundle size.

### Web component

Unlike other icon components, web component renders icon in shadow DOM. This means:

-   Icon is separate from main document, resulting in better performance and shallower DOM tree.
-   It works great with server side rendering! All UI frameworks see is `[tag]<iconify-icon />` tag, actual icon is rendered only in browser independent of UI framework used.

Web component can be used without any UI framework, performing better than [SVG framework](/docs/icon-components/svg-framework/).

It can also be used with most UI frameworks:

-   Svelte, Vue 2, Vue 3, Ember, Lit (and SSR frameworks that use those frameworks) work with web component as is, do not require any custom wrappers.
-   React can work as is, but with few caveats, such as `[prop]class` instead of `[prop]className`. There is a wrapper for React that allows using `[prop]className` and provides typings: [`[npm]@iconify-icon/react`](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@iconify-icon/react).
-   SolidJS currently has issues working with web components and requires custom wrapper. See [`[npm]@iconify-icon/solid`](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@iconify-icon/solid).

### Rendering modes

Web component and almost all old icon components now support rendering modes. Icon can be rendered as SVG, as SPAN with background or as SPAN with mask.

This is mostly done to fix browser issues with SVG animations. If icon is rendered as SVG, animations do not start until an entire document is loaded, which can be broken by small things like ad or tracker failing to load. If icon is rendered as background or mask, animations work as expected.

See [rendering modes documentation](/docs/iconify-icon/modes.html).

### Alignment

Older versions of icon components had alignment attributes. They could be used to control alignment of icon content, when both width and height of icon were set and did not match width/height ratio of icon content. It was basically a wrapper for SVG `[prop]preserveAspectRatio` attribute.

In new version of icon components alignment attributes are no longer supported. They weren't widely used, but they did increase bundle size by significant amount.

If you do need to use alignment attribute, web component supports `[prop]preserveAspectRatio` attribute, which works exactly as in SVG. So switch to web component and adjust your code.
