## UnoCSS and Unplugin Icons update {#loader-scale}

Both [UnoCSS](/docs/usage/css/unocss/index.md) and [Unplugin Icons](/docs/usage/svg/unplugin/index.md) were updated.

While those libraries are not part of Iconify project, both libraries share the same icon loaders,
which are included in [Iconify Utils package](/docs/libraries/utils/index.md).

This is quite a big update.

Changes:
- Fixed `[prop]scale` option. See below.
- `[prop]cwd` option now can be an array of paths, making it easy to search multiple `[file]node_modules` directories in a monorepo.
- Added two parameters to `[prop]customize` callback, one of which is mutable icon data. This allows customising icon content.

### Scaling

In older version, `[prop]scale` option was bugged for non-square icons:
- If the option was set, it caused `[prop]width` to be identical to `[prop]height`, rendering square icons.
- If the option was not set, it rendered icon with the correct aspect ratio.

While square icons might be useful for thin icons, for wide icons this caused parts of icons to be trimmed, which is clearly a bug.

In new version, `[prop]scale` option scales icon correctly, keeping icon's aspect ratio.

It also now plays nicely with `[prop]customize` option, applying scaling to customised icon sizes.

### Customize

In older version, `[prop]customize` option was rather useless. It could be used to only rotate or flip an icon,
and the user didn't even know which icon was customized because there was no context.

In new version, `[prop]customize` function has two new parameters:
- `[prop]data`, `[type]IconifyIcon` with icon data.
- `[prop]name`, `[type]string` with icon name in `[str]prefix:name` format.

Icon name lets you know which icon you are customizing.

Icon data is a mutable object, you can change it to customise icon. 
You can change colors in icons that have hardcoded palette, opacity, timing for animations, add additional shapes and so on...
You can also resize icon or add padding by messing with `[prop]width`, `[prop]height`, `[prop]left` and `[prop]top` properties.

See [IconifyIcon type](/docs/types/iconify-icon.md) for icon data format.

#### Examples

Making all icons square:

```js
presetIcons({
    customizations: {
        customize: (defaultCustomizations, data, name) => {
            // Make icon square
            const width = data.width ?? 16;
            const height = data.height ?? 16;
            if (height > width) {
              // Set width to match height
              data.width = height;
              // Center icon horizontally by changing viewBox left position
              data.left = (data.left ?? 0) - (height - width) / 2;
            }
            
            return defaultCustomizations
        },
    }
})
```

Changing color:

```js
presetIcons({
    customizations: {
        customize: (defaultCustomizations, data, name) => {
            if (name === 'twemoji:blue-square') {
                // Turn blue square into red square
                data.body = data.body.replaceAll('#55ACEE', '#e83933')
            }
            
            return defaultCustomizations
        },
    }
})
```

If something is not working, don't forget that you can always `[js]console.log(data)` to see icon data.
