```yaml
title: Comparing directories
```

# Comparing directories

This tutorial is part of [package functions documentation](./index.md) in [Iconify Tools](../index.md).

Function `[func]compareDirectories()` compares contents of two directories.

It is used to check if package generated by one of [export functions](../export/index.md) and package downloaded from elsewhere, such as NPM package are identical. If packages are identical, there is no need to publish a new version.

## Usage

Function has the following parameters:

- `[prop]dir1`, `[type]string`. Directory.
- `[prop]dir2`, `[type]string`. Another directory.
- `[prop]options`, `[type]object`. Optional options.

Function returns:

- `true` if contents of directories are identical.
- `false` if contents are different.

Function is asynchronous. That means you need to handle it as `[class]Promise` instance, usually by adding `[js]await` before function call.

### Options

Options object has the following optional properties:

- `[prop]ignoreVersions`, `[type]boolean`. If `true`, version numbers in `[file]package.json` are ignored when comparing packages. Default is `true`.
- `[prop]ignoreNewLine`, `[type]boolean`. If `true`, differences in new line in text files are ignored when comparing text files. Default is `true`.
- `[prop]textExtensions`, `[type]string[]`. List of extensions to treat as text files. Default list includes all formats exported by various functions, but you can use this to add other extensions. Extensions should be in lower case.
