---
editLink: false
---
<!-- DO NOT EDIT THIS PAGE IT IS AUTOGENERATED -->

# Iconify Updates 2020


## Iconify version 1.0.4 `[news-time] 1 Feb` {#version-104}

Iconify version 1.0.4 has been released.

This version allows importing `@iconify/iconify` into TypeScript projects.


## Iconify version 1.0.5 `[news-time] 31 Mar` {#version-105}

Iconify version 1.0.5 has been released.

This version fixes issues when using Content Security Policy headers.

If you are using CSP with Iconify 1.\*, you need to add the following URLs to `[attr]script-src`: `[url]https://code.iconify.design/` and `[url]https://api.iconify.design/`.

```html
<meta
	http-equiv="Content-Security-Policy"
	content="default-src 'self'; script-src https://code.iconify.design/ https://api.iconify.design/"
/>
```

For upcoming version 2 of Iconify SVG framework, header will require addition of 2 more URLs: `[url]https://api.simplesvg.com` and `[url]https://api.unisvg.com`. Internet is not stable, errors do happen (downtime, routing errors). Iconify version 2 has built in redundancy to mitigate internet failures. If default API cannot be reached within a second, it will attempt to load icons from backup API. Therefore, backup API needs to be added to list of allowed script sources.

```html
<meta
	http-equiv="Content-Security-Policy"
	content="default-src 'self'; script-src https://code.iconify.design/ https://api.iconify.design/ https://api.simplesvg.com/ https://api.unisvg.com/"
/>
```


## Iconify version 1.0.6 `[news-time] 21 Apr` {#version-106}

Iconify version 1.0.6 has been released.

This version fixes bug that prevented inline style from being passed from placeholder to SVG.


## Iconify 2.0 beta, Vue and Svelte `[news-time] 30 Apr` {#iconify-2-beta-vue-svelte}

Iconify 2.0 beta, Iconify for Vue, Iconify for Svelte.

After several months of hard work, Iconify 2.0 has reached beta stage!
It is also used as base for brand new Vue and Svelte components as well as rewritten React component.

Iconify 1.0 was a designed as a proof of concept. It was built to prove that there can be a decent replacement for icon fonts. However, even though it worked very well, it was not built up to modern standards. Iconify 2.0 was rebuilt from ground up, using modern technologies.

### What's new in Iconify SVG Framework 2.0?

-   API redundancy. Internet is not stable, downtime happens, which is biggest issues with services that rely on third party servers. Iconify 2.0 has built in redundancy, so if API server is unreachable, Iconify attempts to retrieve icons from one of backup API servers.
-   New syntax!
    Major differences:
    -   `[tag]iconify-icon` tag is gone.
    -   Only tags `[tag]span` and `[tag]i` are supported.
    -   `[attr]class="iconify"` now defaults to block icon (without `[prop]vertical-align`).
    -   `[attr]class="iconify-icon"` defaults to inline icon (former `[attr]class="iconify"`).
    -   Iconify SVG Framework watches for attribute changes, except for `[attr]data-inline` attribute. That means if you, for example, change `[attr]data-icon` attribute on a rendered icon, SVG framework will detect change and update icon.

You can still use `[attr]data-inline` attribute to change behavior. Same code for Iconify 1.0 and 2.0:

```html
<p>
	Iconify 1.0 syntax for inline icons:
	<span class="iconify" data-icon="fa-solid:home"></span>
	<i class="iconify" data-icon="mdi-account-off"></i>
</p>
<p>
	Iconify 1.0 syntax for block icons:
	<span class="iconify" data-icon="fa-solid:home" data-inline="false"></span>
	<iconify-icon data-icon="mdi-account-off"></iconify-icon>
</p>
```

```html
<p>
	Iconify 2.0 syntax for inline icons:
	<span class="iconify-inline" data-icon="fa-solid:home"></span>
	<i class="iconify-inline" data-icon="mdi-account-off"></i>
</p>
<p>
	Iconify 2.0 syntax for block icons:
	<span class="iconify" data-icon="fa-solid:home"></span>
	<i class="iconify" data-icon="mdi-account-off"></i>
</p>
```

### What's new for developers?

-   TypeScript support. Iconify was rewritten in TypeScript and exports all types, making it easy to use it with TypeScript.
-   Reusable shared code. Iconify 2.0 uses modular approach to code, allowing developers to pick what functionality they want, making it easy to build custom implementations. Vue, Svelte and new React components are proof that it works.
-   SVG framework and components are now in one big monorepo, making it easy to develop and test common code.
-   Simple build process using modern development tools. Build process uses TypeScript and Rollup, making it easy to create custom bundles.
-   [Click here](https://github.com/iconify/iconify) to access new code.

Documentation on this website is in process of being rebuilt. For now it is for Iconify 1.0. Iconify 2.0 is not fully backwards compatible, so you should look at GitHub for documentation. If you have any questions, [open an issue on Iconify GitHub repository](https://github.com/iconify/iconify).


## Iconify version 1.0.7 `[news-time] 24 Jun` {#version-107}

Iconify version 1.0.7 has been released.

This version includes new bundle for SVG framework that does not include Iconify API support.

To use Iconify SVG framework without Iconify API support, instead of including `iconify.min.js`, include `iconify.without-api.min.js`.

Iconify SVG framework without Iconify API support works only work with icons that are bundled. That means you can use it offline, provided that you have added all icons you need in bundle.

Iconify 2.0, which is currently in development, will include similar bundle without API support.


## Iconify 2 updates `[news-time] 2 Jul` {#iconify2-beta3}

Multiple packages based on Iconify 2 framework have been updated:

-   Iconify SVG framework: 2.0.0 beta 2
-   Iconify for Vue: 1.0.2
-   Iconify for Svelte: 1.0.0 beta 4
-   Iconify for React: 2.0.0 beta 2
-   Iconify for React with API: 1.0.0 beta 2

[Click here to access new code](https://github.com/iconify/iconify).

Documentation on this website is in process of being rebuilt. For now it is for Iconify 1.0. Iconify 2.0 is not fully backwards compatible, so you should look at GitHub for documentation. If you have any questions, [open an issue on Iconify GitHub repository](https://github.com/iconify/iconify).

### Iconify for React with API

Iconify for React with API is a new package. It is similar to Iconify for React, but with added support for Iconify API.

When using Iconify for React, you must bundle used icons and pass icon data to component. New component, in addition to data syntax, supports referencing icon by name. Component will automatically retrieve icon data from Iconify API and will render it. Component caches retrieved data in local storage, so it won\'t need to retrieve icon data again after page reloads.

Example of a checkbox component using Iconify for React with API:

```jsx
import React from 'react';
import { Icon, loadIcons } from '@iconify/react-with-api';

// Optional: load both icons before starting.
// This will:
// 1. Combine icon requests into one, reducing number of HTTPS queries.
// 2. Preload icons before they are displayed, improving rendering.
loadIcons(['uil:check-circle', 'uil:circle']);

// Component
export class Checkbox extends React.Component {
	constructor(props) {
		super();
		this.state = {
			checked: props.checked,
		};
		this._check = this._check.bind(this);
	}

	render() {
		const checked = this.state.checked;
		const icon = checked ? 'uil:check-circle' : 'uil:circle';
		const className =
			'checkbox checkbox--' + (checked ? 'checked' : 'unchecked');

		return (
			<div className="checkbox-container">
				<a href="# " className={className} onClick={this._check}>
					<Icon icon={icon} />
					{this.props.text}
				</a>
				<small>{this.props.hint}</small>
			</div>
		);
	}

	_check(event) {
		event.preventDefault();
		this.setState({
			checked: !this.state.checked,
		});
	}
}
```


## New documentation is available `[news-time] 24 Jul` {#new-documentation}

New documentation is available! [Click here to visit new documentation](/docs/index.md).

Old documentation was badly outdated and almost useless. New documentation has built to be easy to edit and update.

While old documentation was focused on SVG framework, new documentation covers all topics. New topics can be easily added.
All documents are written in Markdown with a bit of custom syntax.
It covers topics about various components, Iconify API, documentation for developers, tutorials on converting icons and many other topics.

Many parts of documentation are under construction. However, it already contains much more information than old documentation did. Documentation is updated almost daily.

New documentation is available on [Iconify GitHub repository](https://github.com/iconify/documentation). Instructions for building documentation are available in `[file]README.md` file. Anyone can contribute.


## SVG Framework version 2.0.0 Release Candidate 1 `[news-time] 26 Aug` {#version-200rc1}

Multiple packages based on Iconify 2 framework have been updated:
-   Iconify SVG framework: 2.0.0 release candidate 1
-   Iconify for React with API: 1.0.0 release candidate 1
-   New component: Iconify for Vue 3

Also, Iconify documentation has been rewritten and most important parts of it are complete.

To learn more about new version of SVG framework and components, visit [SVG framework 2.0 documentation](/docs/icon-components/svg-framework/index.md) and for [Iconify components documentation](/docs/icon-components/index.md).

