---
editLink: false
---
<!-- DO NOT EDIT THIS PAGE IT IS AUTOGENERATED -->

# Iconify Updates 2021


## ES modules support `[news-time] 11 Nov` {#es-modules}

New minor versions of all icon components, including SVG Framework, have been published.

All packages were updated to export ES modules, build process has been changed to rely on ES modules. No more CommonJS! Bundling ES modules resulted in smaller bundle size for all icon components.

Loading icons from API has been re-written as well. New code is smaller and have full test coverage.


## New icon components are now stable `[news-time] 9 Aug` {#components-rewrite2}

Stable versions of new icon components have been published.

All components can load icons on demand from Iconify API and support custom API providers, matching functionality of SVG Framework.

New versions of components:

-   Iconify for React: 3.0.0 (Use `[npm]@iconify/react` to install it)
-   Iconify for Vue 3: 3.0.0 (Use `[npm]@iconify/vue` to install it)
-   Iconify for Vue 2: 1.0.0 (Use `[npm]@iconify/vue2` to install it)
-   Iconify for Svelte: 2.0.0 (Use `[npm]@iconify/svelte` to install it)

Iconify for React with API package (`[npm]@iconify/react-with-api`) has been deprecated.

Source code for new icon components is [available on GitHub](https://github.com/iconify/iconify).

[Iconify icon components documentation](/docs/icon-components/index.md).


## New website for icon sets `[news-time] 7 Aug` {#new-icon-sets-website}

Icon sets section of the website has been completely rewritten.

The new version is based on the Svelte version of [upcoming Iconify Icon Finder](https://github.com/iconify/icon-finder), with an addition of server side rendering.

The same code base is shared with new [Iconify for Figma plug-in](https://github.com/iconify/iconify-figma) and [Iconify for Sketch plug-in](https://github.com/iconify/iconify-sketch) and can be used to create custom icon finder.


## Ember component is available `[news-time] 20 Jul` {#ember}

Ember component is available!

[Click here](/docs/icon-components/ember/index.md) to see Ember component documentation.


## SVG Framework and icon components updated `[news-time] 1 Jul` {#version-203}

SVG Framework version 2.0.3 is available!

This version fixes support for SVG animations. All components have been updated as well.


## SVG Framework version 2.0.2 `[news-time] 16 Jun` {#version-202}

SVG Framework version 2.0.2 is available!

This version fixes compatibility issue with Turbolinks and similar website accelerators.


## All icon components support API `[news-time] 7 May` {#components-rewrite}

All icon components have been rewritten.

From now on, all icon components can load icons on demand from Iconify API
and support custom API providers, matching functionality of SVG Framework.

New versions of components:

-   Iconify for React: 3.0.0 alpha 0 (Use `[npm]@iconify/react@alpha` to install it)
-   Iconify for Vue 3: 3.0.0 alpha 0 (Use `[npm]@iconify/vue@alpha` to install it)
-   Iconify for Vue 2: 1.0.0 alpha 0 (Use `[npm]@iconify/vue2` to install it)
-   Iconify for Svelte: 2.0.0 alpha 0 (Use `[npm]@iconify/svelte@alpha` to install it)

Iconify for React with API package (`[npm]@iconify/react-with-api`) has been deprecated.

Source code for new icon components is [available on GitHub](https://github.com/iconify/iconify).

Documentation has been rewritten for new components [Iconify icon components documentation](/docs/icon-components/index.md).


## SVG Framework version 2.0.0 `[news-time] 7 May` {#version-200}

SVG Framework version 2.0.0 is available!

After months of hard work, new version of SVG Framework is stable and is ready to be used in production.

To learn more about new version of SVG framework and components, visit [SVG framework 2.0 documentation](/docs/icon-components/svg-framework/index.md) and for [Iconify components documentation](/docs/icon-components/index.md).

