## Iconify 2.0 beta, Vue and Svelte {#iconify-2-beta-vue-svelte}

Iconify 2.0 beta, Iconify for Vue, Iconify for Svelte.

After several months of hard work, Iconify 2.0 has reached beta stage!
It is also used as base for brand new Vue and Svelte components as well as rewritten React component.

Iconify 1.0 was designed as a proof of concept. It was built to prove that there can be a decent replacement for icon fonts. However, even though it worked very well, it was not built up to modern standards. Iconify 2.0 was rebuilt from ground up, using modern technologies.

### What's new in Iconify SVG Framework 2.0?

-   API redundancy. The internet is not stable, downtime happens, which is the biggest issues with services that rely on third party servers. Iconify 2.0 has built in redundancy, so if API server is unreachable, Iconify attempts to retrieve icons from one of backup API servers.
-   New syntax!
    Major differences:
    -   `[tag]iconify-icon` tag is gone.
    -   Only tags `[tag]span` and `[tag]i` are supported.
    -   `[attr]class="iconify"` now defaults to block icon (without `[prop]vertical-align`).
    -   `[attr]class="iconify-icon"` defaults to inline icon (former `[attr]class="iconify"`).
    -   Iconify SVG Framework watches for attribute changes, except for `[attr]data-inline` attribute. That means if you, for example, change `[attr]data-icon` attribute on a rendered icon, SVG framework will detect change and update icon.

You can still use `[attr]data-inline` attribute to change behavior. Same code for Iconify 1.0 and 2.0:

```html
<p>
	Iconify 1.0 syntax for inline icons:
	<span class="iconify" data-icon="fa-solid:home"></span>
	<i class="iconify" data-icon="mdi-account-off"></i>
</p>
<p>
	Iconify 1.0 syntax for block icons:
	<span class="iconify" data-icon="fa-solid:home" data-inline="false"></span>
	<iconify-icon data-icon="mdi-account-off"></iconify-icon>
</p>
```

```html
<p>
	Iconify 2.0 syntax for inline icons:
	<span class="iconify-inline" data-icon="fa-solid:home"></span>
	<i class="iconify-inline" data-icon="mdi-account-off"></i>
</p>
<p>
	Iconify 2.0 syntax for block icons:
	<span class="iconify" data-icon="fa-solid:home"></span>
	<i class="iconify" data-icon="mdi-account-off"></i>
</p>
```

### What's new for developers?

-   TypeScript support. Iconify was rewritten in TypeScript and exports all types, making it easy to use it with TypeScript.
-   Reusable shared code. Iconify 2.0 uses a modular approach to code, allowing developers to pick what functionality they want, making it easy to build custom implementations. Vue, Svelte and new React components are proof that it works.
-   SVG framework and components are now in one big monorepo, making it easy to develop and test common code.
-   Simple build process using modern development tools. Build process uses TypeScript and Rollup, making it easy to create custom bundles.
-   [Click here](https://github.com/iconify/iconify) to access new code.

Documentation on this website is in process of being rebuilt. For now it is for Iconify 1.0. Iconify 2.0 is not fully backwards compatible, so you should look at GitHub for documentation. If you have any questions, [open an issue on Iconify GitHub repository](https://github.com/iconify/iconify).
